There's one last piece of hardware that's crucial to understanding big data.
The network that connects all of our computers.
In the past few decades,
every part of your computer has improved,
doubling in efficiency every few years.
Unfortunately, the speed of our network has lagged behind
the improvements in CPU memory and storage.
As a result, moving data across the network from one machine
to another is the most common bottleneck when working with big data.
For example, the same hour of tweets that
would take half a second to process from storage,
would take 30 seconds to download from the Twitter API on a typical network.
Network speeds depend on a lot of factors like,
if your roommate is binging through Netflix at the same time.
But it usually takes at least 20 times longer to process data,
when you have to download it from another machine first.
For this reason, distributed systems try to minimize
shuffling data back and forth across different computers.
Since Spark and any distributed technology for
that matter uses the cluster of servers connected by a network,
we can't entirely avoid moving data around.
Still minimizing network input and output is crucial to
mastering Spark programming and we'll cover how to do this in lesson three.